All right we have completed installations of rabbit MQ server on our systems both on Windows and Mac
OS so to do well with Robert M..
Q And start discovering it will first have to start our rabid enqueue server on our machine to do that.
Locate the binary installation of rabid MQ and to do that.
I'll just go to user folder and local and Espen underspin.
If I do and LS I'll see that my rubidium Q bash scripts are located to start our server.
I'll say as h rabbit m q server.
Simple as that so I'll hit enter.
And our broker is being started and it is complete with 6 additional plugins.
So to checkout if our manager plug in is also enabled I'll open a new tab and from there I'll say localhost
and 1 5 6 7 2 as the pork I'll hit enter.
And here we go our management plug in is also enabled so we can see the management UI dashboard from
here.
Simple as that.
So in case you can't see this page even if you started with your broker all you have to do is type this
command and I'll show you now the command for doing this is.
First you have to of course locate the sh scripts of rabbit MQ binary packages.
To do that you have to go to the user folder local and Espin in there you should see Raben MQ scripts
and files to enable your plugin for management.
You have to type SH rabid MQ plug ins and enable management plugin
that's all in case you don't see the screen.
Please use this command and I'll share this command in my description so you can just copy and paste
it so that you can enable your management UI.
So let's go back to our management UI on management you I to log into our rocker to our rabid MQ server
we have some defaults and to learn those defaults.
Let's go back to our instillation page and check out our default user access.
And as you can see a broker creates a user as guest and with password guest.
So let's use those and logon to our Ibidem Q and guests.
Here we go.
We have all logged into our Rabbitt MQ server as you can see our dashboard is very comprehensive and
detailed also useful dashboard.
So let's start by discovering what it has and what it's doing for us.
First we have our overview page in this overview page.
We have the queued messages and the message ratios and the currently idle broker sites we have the connections
listed here.
Channels exchange queues and if any consumers there they will be displayed right here right below that.
We have our node which is provided by Robert M..
Q So when we launch it in there we have the memory usage number of processes and a disk space that we
have on the top.
We have the connections tap in the connections that if we had any We will be seeing the active connections
to our broker either from the consumer or from the publisher.
And in the next step we have channels.
These channels are simply the messaging channels provided by rabit him.
Q And will dig in to that in the later sections.
In the next step we have exchanges and as you can see as we discussed in our previous lectures these
are difficult exchanges from Rabbitt them.
Q provided to us so that we can by default in it all kind of topics and exchanges as you can see we
have Amcu P default as a direct type of exchange.
We have an Kopete direct.
We have an Cupie fan out.
We have headers and all those different types of exchange provided for us and in the Two-Step you will
be seeing all the cues that we have created for us.
But since there are none.
For now we're not assuming anything and it says no Qs and in the admin section we can manage users will
house limits and clustering mechanisms of rabbit.
Q You can't simply just create users and as you can see here at a user and you can define the management
type of the user as admin monitoring and other things that we can see here.
Also you can manage policies for queuing and message broker limits.
And again clustering.
So this is the general look of rabbit MQ management plug in and we're going to be making use of it very
much in our lectures.